# agent based modeling 

## Agent-Based Modeling in Economics and Science

economic model: DSGE (Dynamic Stochastic General Equilibrium)

2008 Op-Ed. Mark Buchana. Agent based. 

Agent-based models simulate the interactions between agents. A set of rules govern each type of agent's behavior. 

ABMs have revealed that instability in the markets does not develop gradually, but appears very quickly. Upon achieving a threshold, a swift collapse occurs. 

ABM simulations can empower and inform economists and policy makers as these models are informing many scientists. Such models reveal relationships that are not perceptible to even the brightest of human minds. 

## Agent-Base Modeling in the Classroom 

## Agent-Based Modeling in the Textbook and Online

Introduction to Computational Science: Modeling and Simulation for the Sciences. 
재미있어 보인다. 가야할 길이다. Distributed Large Scale Simulation and Artificial Intelligence. 

# Modeling Techniques in the Course

## System Dynamics Modeling 

STELLA - system dynamics modeling tool 

- diffusion of heat
- radioacive decay chains 
- scuba diving 
- the carbon cycle 
- antibiotic resistance 
- the economics of fishing 

## Empirical Modeling 

MATLAB 

## Cellular Automation Simulations 

MATLAB 

- random walk 
- the diffusion of heat 
- the spreading of fire
- growth of polymers or solidification 

## Agent-Based Modeling 

NetLOGO 

# Agent-Based Tutorials

- predator-prey 
- spreading of disease
- progression of fire 


## ABM Tutorial 1

- unconstrained growth of bacteria 

compared with system dynamics modeling using STELLA 

## ABM Tutorial 2

- random walk 

# Outcomes 

## Pretest 


# 정리 

ABM 교육을 tutorial로 접근해서 얻은 성과에 대해 정리한 내용이다. 
ABM 툴로 NetLOGO를 사용했고 몇 가지 모델을 만드는 걸로 교육을 진행했고 결과가 괜찮았다고 한다. 

NetLOGO, Python MESA와 같은 ABM 툴들은 Bot 기반의 게임 테스트와 검증에 유용한 모델을 
제공한다. 이론 기반이 없는 Bot 툴에 MAS(Multi-Agent System)과 함께 중요한 이론적인 도구 중 하나이다. 이들 중 하나는 MDP에서 시작하는 RL (Reinforcement Learning)이다. 

- ABM 
- MAS
- RL 


